Add ERC: Signature Verifiers (#986)
ethereum/ERCs: ERCS/erc-7913.md

---
eip: 7913
title: Key Verifiers

> description: Standard  way to verify signatures by address-less key

Author: ```suggestion
description: Interface for the verification of signatures by address-less keys
```

author: Hadrien Croubois (@Amxx), Ernesto García (@ernestognw), Francisco Giordano (@frangio), Aryeh Greenberg (@ar00)

> discussions-to: https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/<todo>

Author: ```suggestion
discussions-to: https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/erc-7913-key-verifiers/23262
```

status: Draft
type: Standards Track
category: ERC
created: 2025-03-21

> requires: 1271

Reviewer: This shouldn't be needed. If we remove the backwards-compatible verification procedure from the specification it will be possible to remove it.

This definition is backward compatible with EOA and ERC-1271 contract: in that case the we use the address of the identity (EOA or contract) as the verifier and the key is empty.

## Specification

The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT", "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "NOT RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as described in RFC 2119 and RFC 8174.

### Nomenclature

- Keys are described as a `bytes` object of arbitrary length. For example a P256 or RSA public key.
- Verifiers are smart contracts in charge of signature verification for a given key. They have an ethereum address.
- A signer is a `bytes` object that is the concatenation of the verifier's address, and the key: `verifier || key`. A signer is at least 20 bytes long.

### Key Verifier interface

Verifiers MUST implement the following interface

```solidity

> interface IERCXXXXKeyVerifier {

Reviewer: Here I would go with `SignatureVerifier` (`IERC7913SignatureVerifier`).

  /**
   * @dev Main function that verifies if `signature` is a valid signature by `key` of `hash`.
   *
   * MUST return the bytes4 magic value IERCXXXXKeyVerifier.isValidKeySignature.selector if the signature is valid.
   * SHOULD return 0xffffffff or revert if the signature is not valid.
   */

>   function isValidKeySignature(bytes calldata key, bytes32 hash, bytes calldata signature) external view returns (bytes4);

Reviewer: We're using the verb "verification" so I would go with `verifySignature` or even just `verify` since this is a single-purpose contract we don't need to be maximally unambiguous.

}
```

> ### Signature verification

Author: Would you agree with keeping the logic here, and moving only the code to the Reference Implementation section ?

---
eip: 7913
title: Signature Verifiers
description: Interface for the verification of signatures by address-less keys
author: Hadrien Croubois (@Amxx), Ernesto García (@ernestognw), Francisco Giordano (@frangio), Aryeh Greenberg (@arr00)
discussions-to: https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/erc-7913-key-verifiers/23262
status: Draft
type: Standards Track
category: ERC
created: 2025-03-21
---

## Abstract

> Externally Owned Accounts (EOA) can sign messages with their associated private keys. Additionally [ERC-1271](./eip-1271.md) defines a method for signature verification by smart accounts such as multisig. In both cases the identity of the signer is an ethereum address. We propose a standard to extend this concept of signer description, and signature verification, to keys that do not have an ethereum identity of their own, in the sens that they don't have their own address to represent them.
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Externally Owned Accounts (EOA) can sign messages with their associated private keys. Additionally [ERC-1271](./eip-1271.md) defines a method for signature verification by smart accounts such as multisig. In both cases the identity of the signer is an ethereum address. We propose a standard to extend this concept of signer description, and signature verification, to keys that do not have an ethereum identity of their own, in the sense that they don't have their own address to represent them.

```

All these signature mechanisms have one thing in common: they do not have a canonical ethereum address to represent them onchain. While users could deploy ERC-1271 compatible contracts for each key individually, this would be cumbersome and expensive. As account abstraction tries to separate account addresses (that hold assets) from the key that controls them, giving fixed on-chain addresses to keys (and possibly sending assets to these addresses by mistake) is not the right approach. Instead, using a small number of verifier contracts that can process signatures in a standard way, and having the accounts rely on these verifiers, feels like the correct approach. This has the advantage that once the verifier is deployed, any key can be represented using a `(verifier, key)` pair without requiring any setup cost.

> The `(verifier, key)` pairs can be given permission to control a smart account, perform social recovery, or do any other operation without ever having a dedicated on-chain address. Systems that want to adopt this approach need to transition away from the model were signers are identified by their address to a new model where signers may not have an address, and are identified by `bytes` object.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `(verifier, key)` pairs can be given permission to control a smart account, perform social recovery, or do any other operation without ever having a dedicated on-chain address. Systems that want to adopt this approach need to transition away from the model were signers are identified by their address to a new model where signers may not have an address, and are identified by a `bytes` object.
```

   */
  function verify(bytes calldata key, bytes32 hash, bytes calldata signature) external view returns (bytes4);
}
```

### Signature verification

Given a signer `signer`, a message hash `hash`, and a signature `sign`, verification is done as follows:

- if `signer.length < 20`: verification fails;
- split `signer` into `(verifier, key)` with `verifier` being the first 20 bytes and `key` being the rest (potentially empty)
- if `key` is empty, then consider that `verifier` is the identity.
  - verification is done using ERC-1271's isValidSignature if there is code at `verifier` address, or ecrecover otherwise
- if `key` is not empty, call `IERC7913SignatureVerifier(verifier).verify(key, hash, signature)`
  - if the return value is the expected magic value () then verification is successful,
  - otherwise, verification fails.

## Rationale

TODO

## Backwards Compatibility

This ERC proposed a new contract interface, with no consequences to the existing system.

The signer format described here is backward compatible with EOA and ERC-1271 signers. Existing signers will be compatible with systems that adopt this new signer representation model.

> ## Reference implementation

Author: ```suggestion
## Reference Implementation
```

- if `key` is not empty, call `IERC7913SignatureVerifier(verifier).verify(key, hash, signature)`
  - if the return value is the expected magic value () then verification is successful,
  - otherwise, verification fails.

## Reference Implementation

In solidity, signature verification COULD be implemented in the following library:

```solidity
import {SignatureChecker} from '@openzeppelin/contracts/utils/cryptography/SignatureChecker.sol';

/// @dev Extention of openzeppelin's SignatureChecker library
library SignatureCheckerExtended {
  function isValidSignatureNow(bytes calldata signer, bytes32 hash, bytes memory signature) internal view returns (bool) {
      if (signer.length < 20 ) {
        return false;
      } else if (signer.length == 20) {
        return SignatureChecker.isValidSignatureNow(address(bytes20(signer)), hash, signature);
      } else {
        try IERC7913SignatureVerifier(address(bytes20(signer[0:20]))).verify(signer[20:], hash, signature) returns (bytes4 magic) {
          return magic == IERC7913SignatureVerifier.verify.selector;
        } catch {
          return false;
        }
      }
  }
}
```

## Security Considerations

> TODO

Reviewer 3: Author made a explict choice that "Verifiers SHOULD be stateless.", in which case `verify` will be `view/pure` and not causing state change. I'd suggest we remind compliant contract developer to add logic to prevent replay attack: such as if their application rely on the state such as fund availablity, nonce, or whether another internal TX has been performed.
